# https://docs.searxng.org/user/about.html

About SearXNG &#8212; SearXNG Documentation (2026.3.10+8b95b2058) Navigation index modules | next | previous | SearXNG Documentation (2026.3.10+8b95b2058) &#187; User information &#187; About SearXNG About SearXNG ¶ SearXNG is a metasearch engine , aggregating the results of other search engines while not storing information about its users. The SearXNG project is driven by an open community. Come join us on Matrix if you have questions or just want to chat about SearXNG at #searxng:matrix.org Make SearXNG better: You can improve SearXNG translations at Weblate , or… Track development, send contributions, and report issues at SearXNG sources . To get further information, visit SearXNG’s project documentation at SearXNG docs . Why use it? ¶ SearXNG may not offer you as personalized results as Google, but it doesn’t generate a profile about you. SearXNG doesn’t care about what you search for, never shares anything with a third-party, and can’t be used to compromise you. SearXNG is free software; the code is 100% open, and everyone is welcome to make it better. If you do care about privacy, want to be a conscious user, or otherwise believe in digital freedom, make SearXNG your default search engine or run it on your own server! How do I set it as the default search engine? ¶ SearXNG supports OpenSearch . For more information on changing your default search engine, see your browser’s documentation: Firefox Microsoft Edge - Behind the link, you will also find some useful instructions for Chrome and Safari. Chromium -based browsers only add websites that the user navigates to without a path. When adding a search engine, there must be no duplicates with the same name. If you encounter a problem where you cannot add the search engine, you can either: Remove the duplicate (default name: SearXNG) or Contact the owner to give the instance a different name from the default. How does it work? ¶ SearXNG is a fork of the well-known searx metasearch engine which was inspired by the Seeks project . It provides basic privacy by mixing your queries with searches on other platforms without storing search data. SearXNG can be added to your browser’s search bar; moreover, it can be set as the default search engine. The stats page contains some useful anonymous usage statistics about the engines used. How can I make it my own? ¶ SearXNG appreciates your concern regarding logs, so take the code from the SearXNG sources and run it yourself! Add your instance to this list of public instances to help other people reclaim their privacy and make the internet freer. The more decentralized the internet is, the more freedom we have! Table of Contents User information Search syntax Configured Engines About SearXNG Why use it? How do I set it as the default search engine? How does it work? How can I make it my own? Why use a private instance? Administrator documentation Developer documentation DevOps tooling box Source-Code Project Links Source Wiki Public instances Issue Tracker Navigation Overview User information Previous: Configured Engines Next: Why use a private instance? Quick search This Page Show Source &#169; Copyright SearXNG team.