# https://docs.searxng.org/user/search-syntax.html

Search syntax &#8212; SearXNG Documentation (2026.3.10+8b95b2058) Navigation index modules | next | previous | SearXNG Documentation (2026.3.10+8b95b2058) &#187; User information &#187; Search syntax Search syntax ¶ SearXNG comes with a search syntax by which you can modify the categories, engines, languages, and more. See the preferences for the list of engines, categories, and languages. ! Select engine and category ¶ To set category and/or engine names, use a ! prefix. To give a few examples: Search Wikipedia for paris : !wp paris !wikipedia paris Search in category map for paris : !map paris Image search !images Wau Holland Abbreviations of the engines and languages are also accepted. Engine/category modifiers are chainable and inclusive. For example, !map !ddg !wp paris searches in the map category and searches DuckDuckGo and Wikipedia for paris . : Select language ¶ To select a language filter use a : prefix. To give an example: Search Wikipedia with a custom language: :fr !wp Wau Holland !!<bang> External bangs ¶ SearXNG supports the external bangs from DuckDuckGo . To directly jump to a external search page use the !! prefix. To give an example: Search Wikipedia with a custom language: !!wfr Wau Holland Please note that your search will be performed directly in the external search engine. SearXNG cannot protect your privacy with this. !! automatic redirect ¶ When including !! within your search query (separated by spaces), you will automatically be redirected to the first result. This behavior is comparable to the “Feeling Lucky” feature from DuckDuckGo. To give an example: Search for a query and get redirected to the first result !! Wau Holland Please keep in mind that the result you are being redirected to can’t be verified for trustworthiness and SearXNG cannot protect your personal privacy when using this feature. Use it at your own risk. Special Queries ¶ In the preferences page you find keywords for special queries . To give a few examples: Generate a random UUID random uuid Find the average avg 123 548 2.04 24.2 Show the user agent of your browser (needs to be activated) user-agent Convert strings to different hash digests (needs to be activated) md5 lorem ipsum sha512 lorem ipsum Table of Contents User information Search syntax ! Select engine and category : Select language !!<bang> External bangs !! automatic redirect Special Queries Configured Engines About SearXNG Why use a private instance? Administrator documentation Developer documentation DevOps tooling box Source-Code Project Links Source Wiki Public instances Issue Tracker Navigation Overview User information Previous: User information Next: Configured Engines Quick search This Page Show Source &#169; Copyright SearXNG team.