# https://docs.searxng.org/admin/answer-captcha.html

Answer CAPTCHA from server’s IP &#8212; SearXNG Documentation (2026.3.10+8b95b2058) Navigation index modules | next | previous | SearXNG Documentation (2026.3.10+8b95b2058) &#187; Administrator documentation &#187; Answer CAPTCHA from server’s IP Answer CAPTCHA from server’s IP ¶ With a SSH tunnel we can send requests from server’s IP and solve a CAPTCHA that blocks requests from this IP. If your SearXNG instance is hosted at example.org and your login is user you can setup a proxy simply by ssh : # SOCKS server: socks://127.0.0.1:8080 $ ssh -q -N -D 8080 user@example.org The socks://localhost:8080 from above can be tested by: server’s IP desktop’s IP $ curl -x socks://127.0.0.1:8080 http://ipecho.net/plain n.n.n.n $ curl http://ipecho.net/plain x.x.x.x In the settings of the WEB browser open the “Network Settings” and setup a proxy on SOCKS5 127.0.0.1:8080 (see screenshot below). In the WEB browser check the IP from the server is used: http://ipecho.net/plain Now open the search engine that blocks requests from your server’s IP. If you have issues with the qwant engine , solve the CAPTCHA from qwant.com . Firefox Fig. 1 Firefox’s network settings ¶ ssh manual: -D [bind_address:]port Specifies a local “dynamic” application-level port forwarding. This works by allocating a socket to listen to port on the local side .. Whenever a connection is made to this port, the connection is forwarded over the secure channel, and the application protocol is then used to determine where to connect to from the remote machine .. ssh will act as a SOCKS server .. -N Do not execute a remote command. This is useful for just forwarding ports. Table of Contents User information Why use a private instance? Administrator documentation Settings Installation Installation container Installation Script Step by step installation Granian uWSGI NGINX Apache SearXNG maintenance Answer CAPTCHA from server’s IP Favicons Limiter Administration API Architecture List of plugins Buildhosts Developer documentation DevOps tooling box Source-Code Project Links Source Wiki Public instances Issue Tracker Navigation Overview Administrator documentation Previous: SearXNG maintenance Next: Favicons Quick search This Page Show Source &#169; Copyright SearXNG team.