# https://docs.searxng.org/admin/installation-uwsgi.html

uWSGI &#8212; SearXNG Documentation (2026.3.10+8b95b2058) Navigation index modules | next | previous | SearXNG Documentation (2026.3.10+8b95b2058) &#187; Administrator documentation &#187; uWSGI uWSGI ¶ further reading systemd.unit uWSGI Emperor Origin uWSGI ¶ How uWSGI is implemented by distributors varies. The uWSGI project itself recommends two methods: systemd.unit template file as described here One service per app in systemd : There is one systemd unit template on the system installed and one uwsgi ini file per uWSGI-app placed at dedicated locations. Take archlinux and a searxng.ini as example: systemd template unit : / usr / lib / systemd / system / uwsgi @. service contains : [ Service ] ExecStart =/ usr / bin / uwsgi -- ini / etc / uwsgi /% I . ini SearXNG application : / etc / uwsgi / searxng . ini links to : / etc / uwsgi / apps - available / searxng . ini The SearXNG app (template /etc/uwsgi/%I.ini ) can be maintained as known from common systemd units: $ systemctl enable uwsgi@searxng $ systemctl start uwsgi@searxng $ systemctl restart uwsgi@searxng $ systemctl stop uwsgi@searxng The uWSGI Emperor which fits for maintaining a large range of uwsgi apps and there is a Tyrant mode to secure multi-user hosting. The Emperor mode is a special uWSGI instance that will monitor specific events. The Emperor mode (the service) is started by a (common, not template) systemd unit. The Emperor service will scan specific directories for uwsgi ini file s (also know as vassals ). If a vassal is added, removed or the timestamp is modified, a corresponding action takes place: a new uWSGI instance is started, reload or stopped. Take Fedora and a searxng.ini as example: to install & start SearXNG instance create --> / etc / uwsgi . d / searxng . ini to reload the instance edit timestamp --> touch / etc / uwsgi . d / searxng . ini to stop instance remove ini --> rm / etc / uwsgi . d / searxng . ini Distributors ¶ The uWSGI Emperor mode and systemd unit template is what the distributors mostly offer their users, even if they differ in the way they implement both modes and their defaults. Another point they might differ in is the packaging of plugins (if so, compare Install packages ) and what the default python interpreter is (python2 vs. python3). While archlinux does not start a uWSGI service by default, Fedora (RHEL) starts a Emperor in Tyrant mode by default (you should have read Pitfalls of the Tyrant mode ). Worth to know; debian (ubuntu) follow a complete different approach, read see Debian’s uWSGI layout . Debian’s uWSGI layout ¶ Be aware, Debian’s uWSGI layout is quite different from the standard uWSGI configuration. Your are familiar with Debian’s Apache layout ? .. they do a similar thing for the uWSGI infrastructure. The folders are: / etc / uwsgi / apps - available / / etc / uwsgi / apps - enabled / The uwsgi ini file is enabled by a symbolic link: ln - s / etc / uwsgi / apps - available / searxng . ini / etc / uwsgi / apps - enabled / More details can be found in the uwsgi.README.Debian ( /usr/share/doc/uwsgi/README.Debian.gz ). Some commands you should know on Debian: Commands recognized by init.d script ==================================== You can issue to init.d script following commands: * start | starts daemon * stop | stops daemon * reload | sends to daemon SIGHUP signal * force-reload | sends to daemon SIGTERM signal * restart | issues &#39;stop&#39;, then &#39;start&#39; commands * status | shows status of daemon instance (running/not running) &#39;status&#39; command must be issued with exactly one argument: &#39;<confname>&#39;. Controlling specific instances of uWSGI ======================================= You could control specific instance(s) by issuing: SYSTEMCTL_SKIP_REDIRECT=1 service uwsgi <command> <confname> <confname>... where: * <command> is one of &#39;start&#39;, &#39;stop&#39; etc. * <confname> is the name of configuration file (without extension) For example, this is how instance for /etc/uwsgi/apps-enabled/hello.xml is started: SYSTEMCTL_SKIP_REDIRECT=1 service uwsgi start hello uWSGI maintenance ¶ Ubuntu / debian Arch Linux Fedora / RHEL # init.d --> /usr/share/doc/uwsgi/README.Debian.gz # For uWSGI debian uses the LSB init process, this might be changed # one day, see https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=833067 create /etc/uwsgi/apps-available/searxng.ini enable: sudo -H ln -s /etc/uwsgi/apps-available/searxng.ini /etc/uwsgi/apps-enabled/ start: sudo -H service uwsgi start searxng restart: sudo -H service uwsgi restart searxng stop: sudo -H service uwsgi stop searxng disable: sudo -H rm /etc/uwsgi/apps-enabled/searxng.ini # systemd --> /usr/lib/systemd/system/uwsgi@.service # For uWSGI archlinux uses systemd template units, see # - http://0pointer.de/blog/projects/instances.html # - https://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Systemd.html#one-service-per-app-in-systemd create: /etc/uwsgi/searxng.ini enable: sudo -H systemctl enable uwsgi@searxng start: sudo -H systemctl start uwsgi@searxng restart: sudo -H systemctl restart uwsgi@searxng stop: sudo -H systemctl stop uwsgi@searxng disable: sudo -H systemctl disable uwsgi@searxng # systemd --> /usr/lib/systemd/system/uwsgi.service # The unit file starts uWSGI in emperor mode (/etc/uwsgi.ini), see # - https://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Emperor.html create: /etc/uwsgi.d/searxng.ini restart: sudo -H touch /etc/uwsgi.d/searxng.ini disable: sudo -H rm /etc/uwsgi.d/searxng.ini uWSGI setup ¶ Create the configuration ini-file according to your distribution and restart the uwsgi application. As shown below, the Installation Script installs by default a uWSGI setup that listens on a socket. Ubuntu / debian Arch Linux Fedora / RHEL # -*- mode: conf; coding: utf-8 -*- [ uwsgi ] # uWSGI core # ---------- # # https://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Options.html#uwsgi-core # Who will run the code / Hint: in emperor-tyrant mode uid & gid setting will be # ignored [1]. Mode emperor-tyrant is the default on fedora (/etc/uwsgi.ini). # # [1] https://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Emperor.html#tyrant-mode-secure-multi-user-hosting # uid = searxng gid = searxng # set (python) default encoding UTF-8 env = LANG = C.UTF-8 env = LANGUAGE = C.UTF-8 env = LC_ALL = C.UTF-8 # chdir to specified directory before apps loading chdir = /usr/local/searxng/searxng-src/searx # SearXNG configuration (settings.yml) env = SEARXNG_SETTINGS_PATH = /etc/searxng/settings.yml # disable logging for privacy disable-logging = true # The right granted on the created socket chmod-socket = 666 # Plugin to use and interpreter config single-interpreter = true # enable master process master = true # load apps in each worker instead of the master lazy-apps = true # load uWSGI plugins plugin = python3,http # By default the Python plugin does not initialize the GIL. This means your # app-generated threads will not run. If you need threads, remember to enable # them with enable-threads. Running uWSGI in multithreading mode (with the # threads options) will automatically enable threading support. This *strange* # default behaviour is for performance reasons. enable-threads = true # Number of workers (usually CPU count) workers = %k threads = 4 # plugin: python # -------------- # # https://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Options.html#plugin-python # load a WSGI module module = searx.webapp # set PYTHONHOME/virtualenv virtualenv = /usr/local/searxng/searx-pyenv # add directory (or glob) to pythonpath pythonpath = /usr/local/searxng/searxng-src # speak to upstream # ----------------- socket = /usr/local/searxng/run/socket buffer-size = 8192 offload-threads = %k # -*- mode: conf; coding: utf-8 -*- [ uwsgi ] # uWSGI core # ---------- # # https://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Options.html#uwsgi-core # Who will run the code uid = searxng gid = searxng # set (python) default encoding UTF-8 env = LANG = C.UTF-8 env = LANGUAGE = C.UTF-8 env = LC_ALL = C.UTF-8 # chdir to specified directory before apps loading chdir = /usr/local/searxng/searxng-src/searx # SearXNG configuration (settings.yml) env = SEARXNG_SETTINGS_PATH = /etc/searxng/settings.yml # disable logging for privacy logger = systemd disable-logging = true # The right granted on the created socket chmod-socket = 666 # Plugin to use and interpreter config single-interpreter = true # enable master process master = true # load apps in each worker instead of the master lazy-apps = true # load uWSGI plugins plugin = python # By default the Python plugin does not initialize the GIL. This means your # app-generated threads will not run. If you need threads, remember to enable # them with enable-threads. Running uWSGI in multithreading mode (with the # threads options) will automatically enable threading support. This *strange* # default behaviour is for performance reasons. enable-threads = true # Number of workers (usually CPU count) workers = %k threads = 4 # plugin: python # -------------- # # https://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Options.html#plugin-python # load a WSGI module module = searx.webapp # set PYTHONHOME/virtualenv virtualenv = /usr/local/searxng/searx-pyenv # add directory (or glob) to pythonpath pythonpath = /usr/local/searxng/searxng-src # speak to upstream # ----------------- socket = /usr/local/searxng/run/socket buffer-size = 8192 offload-threads = %k # -*- mode: conf; coding: utf-8 -*- [ uwsgi ] # uWSGI core # ---------- # # https://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Options.html#uwsgi-core # Who will run the code / Hint: in emperor-tyrant mode uid & gid setting will be # ignored [1]. Mode emperor-tyrant is the default on fedora (/etc/uwsgi.ini). # # [1] https://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Emperor.html#tyrant-mode-secure-multi-user-hosting # uid = searxng gid = searxng # set (python) default encoding UTF-8 env = LANG = C.UTF-8 env = LANGUAGE = C.UTF-8 env = LC_ALL = C.UTF-8 # chdir to specified directory before apps loading chdir = /usr/local/searxng/searxng-src/searx # SearXNG configuration (settings.yml) env = SEARXNG_SETTINGS_PATH = /etc/searxng/settings.yml # disable logging for privacy disable-logging = true # The right granted on the created socket chmod-socket = 666 # Plugin to use and interpreter config single-interpreter = true # enable master process master = true # load apps in each worker instead of the master lazy-apps = true # load uWSGI plugins plugin = python3,http # By default the Python plugin does not initialize the GIL. This means your # app-generated threads will not run. If you need threads, remember to enable # them with enable-threads. Running uWSGI in multithreading mode (with the # threads options) will automatically enable threading support. This *strange* # default behaviour is for performance reasons. enable-threads = true # Number of workers (usually CPU count) workers = %k threads = 4 # plugin: python # -------------- # # https://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Options.html#plugin-python # load a WSGI module module = searx.webapp # set PYTHONHOME/virtualenv virtualenv = /usr/local/searxng/searx-pyenv # add directory (or glob) to pythonpath pythonpath = /usr/local/searxng/searxng-src # speak to upstream # ----------------- socket = /usr/local/searxng/run/socket buffer-size = 8192 offload-threads = %k Pitfalls of the Tyrant mode ¶ The implementation of the process owners and groups in the Tyrant mode is somewhat unusual and requires special consideration. In Tyrant mode mode the Emperor will run the vassal using the UID/GID of the vassal configuration file (user and group of the app .ini file). Without option emperor-tyrant-initgroups=true in /etc/uwsgi.ini the process won’t get the additional groups, but this option is not available in 2.0.x branch (see #2099&#64;uWSGI ) the feature #752&#64;uWSGI has been merged (on Oct. 2014) to the master branch of uWSGI but had never been released; the last major release is from Dec. 2013, since the there had been only bugfix releases (see #2425uWSGI ). To shorten up: In Tyrant mode, there is no way to get additional groups, and the uWSGI process misses additional permissions that may be needed. For example on Fedora (RHEL): If you try to install a valkey DB with socket communication and you want to connect to it from the SearXNG uWSGI, you will see a Permission denied in the log of your instance: ERROR:searx.valkeydb: [searxng (993)] can&#39;t connect valkey DB ... ERROR:searx.valkeydb: Error 13 connecting to unix socket: /usr/local/searxng-valkey/run/valkey.sock. Permission denied. ERROR:searx.plugins.limiter: init limiter DB failed!!! Even if your searxng user of the uWSGI process is added to additional groups to give access to the socket from the valkey DB: $ groups searxng searxng : searxng searxng-valkey To see the effective groups of the uwsgi process, you have to look at the status of the process, by example: $ ps -aef | grep &#39;/usr/sbin/uwsgi --ini searxng.ini&#39; searxng 93 92 0 12:43 ? 00:00:00 /usr/sbin/uwsgi --ini searxng.ini searxng 186 93 0 12:44 ? 00:00:01 /usr/sbin/uwsgi --ini searxng.ini Here you can see that the additional “Groups” of PID 186 are unset (missing gid of searxng-valkey ): $ cat /proc/186/task/186/status ... Uid: 993 993 993 993 Gid: 993 993 993 993 FDSize: 128 Groups: ... Table of Contents User information Why use a private instance? Administrator documentation Settings Installation Installation container Installation Script Step by step installation Granian uWSGI Origin uWSGI Distributors Debian’s uWSGI layout uWSGI maintenance uWSGI setup Pitfalls of the Tyrant mode NGINX Apache SearXNG maintenance Answer CAPTCHA from server’s IP Favicons Limiter Administration API Architecture List of plugins Buildhosts Developer documentation DevOps tooling box Source-Code Project Links Source Wiki Public instances Issue Tracker Navigation Overview Administrator documentation Previous: Granian Next: NGINX Quick search This Page Show Source &#169; Copyright SearXNG team.