# https://docs.searxng.org/admin/installation-scripts.html

Installation Script &#8212; SearXNG Documentation (2026.3.10+8b95b2058) Navigation index modules | next | previous | SearXNG Documentation (2026.3.10+8b95b2058) &#187; Administrator documentation &#187; Installation Script Installation Script ¶ Update the OS first! To avoid unwanted side effects, update your OS before installing SearXNG. The following will install a setup as shown in the reference architecture . First you need to get a clone of the repository. The clone is only needed for the installation procedure and some maintenance tasks. further read DevOps tooling box Jump to a folder that is readable by others and start to clone SearXNG, alternatively you can create your own fork and clone from there. $ cd ~/Downloads $ git clone https://github.com/searxng/searxng.git searxng $ cd searxng further read How to inspect & debug To install a SearXNG reference setup including a uWSGI setup as described in the Step by step installation and in the uWSGI section type: $ sudo -H ./utils/searxng.sh install all Attention For the installation procedure, use a sudoer login to run the scripts. If you install from root , take into account that the scripts are creating a searxng user. In the installation procedure this new created user does need to have read access to the cloned SearXNG repository, which is not the case if you clone it into a folder below /root ! further read How to update When all services are installed and running fine, you can add SearXNG to your HTTP server. We do not have any preferences regarding the HTTP server, you can use whatever you prefer. We implemented installation procedures for: NGINX Apache Table of Contents User information Why use a private instance? Administrator documentation Settings Installation Installation container Installation Script Step by step installation Granian uWSGI NGINX Apache SearXNG maintenance Answer CAPTCHA from server’s IP Favicons Limiter Administration API Architecture List of plugins Buildhosts Developer documentation DevOps tooling box Source-Code Project Links Source Wiki Public instances Issue Tracker Navigation Overview Administrator documentation Previous: Installation container Next: Step by step installation Quick search This Page Show Source &#169; Copyright SearXNG team.