# https://docs.searxng.org/admin/update-searxng.html

SearXNG maintenance &#8212; SearXNG Documentation (2026.3.10+8b95b2058) Navigation index modules | next | previous | SearXNG Documentation (2026.3.10+8b95b2058) &#187; Administrator documentation &#187; SearXNG maintenance SearXNG maintenance ¶ further read DevOps tooling box uWSGI maintenance How to update ¶ How to update depends on the Installation method. If you have used the Installation Script , use the update command from the utils/searxng.sh script. sudo -H ./utils/searxng.sh instance update How to inspect & debug ¶ How to debug depends on the Installation method. If you have used the Installation Script , use the inspect command from the utils/searxng.sh script. sudo -H ./utils/searxng.sh instance inspect Migrate and stay tuned! ¶ info PR 1332 PR 456 A comment about rolling release SearXNG is a rolling release ; each commit to the master branch is a release. SearXNG is growing rapidly, the services and opportunities are change every now and then, to name just a few: Bot protection has been switched from filtron to SearXNG’s limiter , this requires a Valkey database. To stay tuned and get in use of the new features, instance maintainers have to update the SearXNG code regularly (see How to update ). As the above examples show, this is not always enough, sometimes services have to be set up or reconfigured and sometimes services that are no longer needed should be uninstalled. Here you will find a list of changes that affect the infrastructure. Please check to what extent it is necessary to update your installations: PR 1595 : [fix] uWSGI: increase buffer-size Re-install uWSGI ( utils/searxng.sh ) or fix your uWSGI searxng.ini file manually. Check after Installation ¶ Once you have done your installation, you can run a SearXNG check procedure, to see if there are some left overs. In this example there exists a old /etc/searx/settings.yml : $ sudo -H ./utils/searxng.sh instance check SearXNG checks -------------- ERROR: settings.yml in /etc/searx/ is deprecated, move file to folder /etc/searxng/ ... INFO searx.valkeydb : connecting to Valkey db=0 path=&#39;/usr/local/searxng-valkey/run/valkey.sock&#39; INFO searx.valkeydb : connected to Valkey Table of Contents User information Why use a private instance? Administrator documentation Settings Installation Installation container Installation Script Step by step installation Granian uWSGI NGINX Apache SearXNG maintenance How to update How to inspect & debug Migrate and stay tuned! Check after Installation Answer CAPTCHA from server’s IP Favicons Limiter Administration API Architecture List of plugins Buildhosts Developer documentation DevOps tooling box Source-Code Project Links Source Wiki Public instances Issue Tracker Navigation Overview Administrator documentation Previous: Apache Next: Answer CAPTCHA from server’s IP Quick search This Page Show Source &#169; Copyright SearXNG team.